---
layout: post
title: ERC Starting Grant
date: 2025-09-05 12:00:00
description: Reception of ERC Starting Grant
tags: physics 
categories: work
---

I'm very proud to announce that I've been successful in this years ERC Starting Grant competition. I've been awarded funding to implement the project STAPLE.

<img src="../../../assets/img/project-staple-alpha-wp.png" alt="Logo" style="width:200px;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;">


In the ongoing quest to understand the fundamental nature of our universe,
scientists rely on powerful instruments like the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at
CERN. By accelerating particles to nearly the speed of light and then colliding
them, we can observe the debris and learn about the fundamental building blocks
of everything we see. This strategy has been incredibly successful, leading to
the development of the Standard Model of Particle Physics.  This theory
accurately describes the behaviour of three of the four fundamental forces of
nature and all known elementary particles.  Despite its remarkable success, the
Standard Model isn't the complete picture. It fails to explain some of the
universe's most profound mysteries, such as what constitutes dark matter, the
reason there's far more matter than antimatter, and the origin of particle
mass. To solve these puzzles, scientists are collecting an enormous amount of
new data at the LHC and are planning even more powerful particle accelerators
for the future. The sheer volume of this data will allow them to push the
Standard Model to its limits, potentially revealing cracks that could lead to a
new, more comprehensive theory. The data can also be reinterpreted to search
for new physics at energies far beyond the LHC's direct reach, effectively
turning it into a powerful magnifying glass for the universe's hidden secrets.
Making the most of these experiments requires an incredible level of precision,
not only in the hardware but also in the theoretical predictions. It's not
enough to simply collect data; physicists need to know precisely what they're
looking for. These predictions come from highly complex calculations using
Quantum Field Theory, a framework that combines quantum mechanics with special
relativity. To match the precision of the experimental data, these theoretical
calculations must be improved by including quantum corrections. The European
particle physics community has recognized this challenge, emphasizing the need
for advanced theoretical tools. The STAPLE project is a direct response to this
need. It aims to combine recent breakthroughs in theoretical calculations with
advanced computer simulations to create a new generation of precision event
simulations. This powerful new tool will enable physicists to make accurate and
precise predictions for what happens inside a particle collision, serving as a
cornerstone of precision physics at the LHC and beyond. It is the crucial link
between the experimental data we gather and the fundamental truths we seek to
understand.
