---
layout: post
title: Identified hadron production at hadron colliders in NNLO QCD
date: 2025-03-14 17:00:00
description: New pre-print publication
tags: physics 
categories: work
---

<h4> Identified hadron production at hadron colliders in NNLO QCD </h4>

<b>Authors:</b> Michał Czakon, Terry Generet, Alexander Mitov, Rene Poncelet

<b>Abstract:</b> In this work we calculate for the first time the next-to-next-to leading order (NNLO) QCD corrections to identified hadron production at hadron colliders. The inclusion of the NNLO correction has an important impact on all observables considered in this work. Higher order corrections reduce scale uncertainty and in almost all cases are moderate. Overall, good perturbative convergence is observed across kinematics and observables. The uncertainty due to missing higher orders is relatively small and, in many cases, smaller than the experimental uncertainty. The largest source of theoretical uncertainty at present is from the knowledge of the non-perturbative parton-to-hadron fragmentation functions (FF), which dwarfs the scale uncertainty in most kinematic ranges. The inclusion of NNLO corrections demonstrates the precision studies potential of this class of observables. To fully realize this potential, however, a new generation of improved fragmentation functions may be needed. The results of the present work will enable global fits of FF with NNLO precision.
 
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11489">Article on arxiv.org</a>
