---
layout: post
title: Les Houches study on inclusive jet production at NNLO+NNLL
date: 2026-04-28 17:00:00
description: New pre-print publication
tags: physics
categories: work
---

<h4> Les Houches study on inclusive jet production at NNLO+NNLL </h4>

<b>Authors:</b> Terry Generet, Joey Huston, Kyle Lee, Ian Moult, Rene Poncelet, Xiaoyuan Zhang

<b>Abstract:</b> Jet production at the LHC is a powerful probe of QCD, making it ideal for precision tests and determinations of QCD parameters such as parton distribution functions and the strong coupling constant. To make the most of the abundant jet production data collected at the LHC, precise calculations are required. While state-of-the-art calculations reach next-to-next-to-leading order (NNLO) QCD accuracy, a critical assessment of the remaining uncertainties arising from non-perturbative effects and missing higher orders remains crucial for correctly interpreting comparisons between theory and data. Scale variation is nearly always used to determine effects from missing higher orders. In this article, we reassess this method in the context of inclusive jet production by performing NNLO QCD calculations supplemented by small-jet-radius resummation through next-to-next-to-leading-logarithmic accuracy (NNLL). We find that NNLL resummation can have an appreciable impact on the scale uncertainty for inclusive jet cross sections, and, for some scale choices, can lead to sizeable shifts of the central cross section. We conclude that scale variations in fixed-order and resummed calculations can drastically underestimate the impact of higher orders for commonly used jet radius parameters, and that missing higher-order estimates obtained via scale variations should be considered unreliable. Our findings add further evidence to the importance of going beyond scale variations in jet and jet substructure calculations.
 
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.25490">Article on arxiv.org</a>
